---
title: "Mac book pro"
date:  2018-07-08
draft: "true"
---

During my internship in a company in Zurich the IT guy sent an email to the staff offering to anyone interested one of a few old mac book pros. The company were giving them away because the were not longer good enough for their needs. I thought, "hey, free
laptop!" so I got one. Little I knew then, as per usual with Apple products it proved to be more useful as a weight if you want to work your back out or lift it repeatedly to flex your biceps, than anything else computer science related.

It's a [late 2006 mac book pro](https://everymac.com/systems/apple/macbook_pro/specs/macbook-pro-core-2-duo-2.33-15-specs.html). The first thing I remember when I opened it --the IT guy had freshly installed its operating system for me because he was cool and he liked me-- was the chrome browser notifying that it was going to end its support for the existing operating system in the next few months. The laptop was running MacOs 10.7.5, the so-called Lion, and this was the latest system that could be run on the machine. It was released on October 2012, so I leave it to you to decide if 5 years of support is enough or not.

Since the system was crap to me, I gave it to my mother and told her not to click on fancy colors on the internet. Every now and then I had to help her with problems that arose randomly, for example the wifi would stop working or various applications were popping up at startup without her will. Basically, the system lagged, and during winter you could avoid turning the heater on and rely on some internet browsing from the mac book pro to keep your house warm. The laptop was running the operating system which the company that made it provided for.

Could I install linux on it? A quick internet search suggested that holding down the "option" key would make it possible to read from a usb stick with a linux image flashed in. Ha. I'd wish. I tried every key on the laptop's crappy keyboard. I tried every combination of them that could make some sense. I tested that the usb iso was ok, I formated again and again the drive from within the operating system to its own filesystem type. Basically, I spent a lot of hours trying every suggestion and every idea I could find online. At some point I was so pissed off that I just deleted the operating system and left its recovery partition only. No system was available to boot, but still, no way to install something else. Apple had closed every road to something other than what they designed for it. Of course, I don't really appreciate their "security through obscurity" and "it stopped working so buy a new fancy one" policies and I am not surprised that they stick to them since there are plenty of victims brainwashed by their superiorly designed crap.

Last weekend I did the only thing I had not tried before. I unscrewed the laptop, took out its drive and plugged it in my old desktop pc. Its motherboard has 8 lovely SATA conections. I plugged the hard drive containing the remaining macOs recovery crap on one of them, I formated all of it to ext4, installed linux mint 19, the goddamn latest --released one month ago-- version running the 4.15 linux kernel and well, it run so smooth and fast I won't give it to my mother. Right now it's summer, the temperature is about 30 degrees at the place where I live, but the laptop is not producing much heat. 
